This section covers a major contribution of this thesis, related to the design
and implementation of a semi-synthetic dataset generator to be used by
convolutional neural networks.

\subsection{Problem statement}

To properly train a convolutional neural network, it is crucial to collect a
balanced dataset representing all possible cases as to produce a robust and
stable model. This task can be tedious, especially for the case of supervised
learning where each sample must be annotated with the desired learned output.\\

The use of synthetic datasets in deep learning, and more specifically in
computer vision, is not common but neither unheard-of. An early work from
Vasquez \etal~\cite{PedestrianDetection} presented a study of the use computer
graphics to render virtual scenes and images of pedestrians, and the potential
adapatation for real world usage of classifiers trained on such synthetic
dataset. Even though the approach is based on engineered feature detection
methods (such as HOG -- Histogram Of Gradients), and not deep convolutions, the
final statement is still valid: there is a noticeable domain shift for
classifiers trained on virtual-world data, only just as there would be with
real-world data.\\


For the specific case of autonomous drone racing however, no occurence of the
use of synthetic datasets for the perception logic could be found, at the time
of this writing. What emerged from the literature review of the past research
in this field, is that most deep learning-based methods make use of manually
collected image datasets, mostly captured from a drone piloted by a human.

Unfortunately, this kind of dataset is limited in the fact that it cannot be
reused by other researchers without possessing the same obstacles, or the same
environment represented in it. The same goes for the annotations, and the
sensors used, which cannot be modified or enhanced without corrupting the
dataset integrity. To sum up, most researchers need to create their own dataset
when it comes to autonmous drone racing, simply because they have different
needs in terms of data input and ground truth.\\

